

This a model from the article:  
** Modeling the insulin-glucose feedback system: the significance of pulsatile insulin secretion. **   
Tolic IM, Mosekilde E, Sturis J. _J Theor Biol_2000 Dec 7;207(3):361-75
[11082306](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11082306),  
**Abstract:**   
A mathematical model of the insulin-glucose feedback regulation in man is used
to examine the effects of an oscillatory supply of insulin compared to a
constant supply at the same average rate. We show that interactions between
the oscillatory insulin supply and the receptor dynamics can be of minute
significance only. It is possible, however, to interpret seemingly conflicting
results of clinical studies in terms of their different experimental
conditions with respect to the hepatic glucose release. If this release is
operating near an upper limit, an oscillatory insulin supply will be more
efficient in lowering the blood glucose level than a constant supply. If the
insulin level is high enough for the hepatic release of glucose to nearly
vanish, the opposite effect is observed. For insulin concentrations close to
the point of inflection of the insulin-glucose dose-response curve an
oscillatory and a constant insulin infusion produce similar effects. Copyright
2000 Academic Press.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Tolic IM, Mosekilde E, Sturis J. (2000) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/workspace/tolic_mosekilde_sturis_2000)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

